1. When turning right or left at an intersection:
(i) And the little green man of the pedestrian crossing is still on, you may go if there are no pedestrians crossing
(ii) And pedestrians waiting to cross have a red man, you must still stop for them
(iii) Pedestrians crossing the intersection after the little man hos turned red, still have right of way
(iv) Motor vehicles have right of way over pedestrians where there are no crossing lines
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (ii) And (iv)
c) (i) And (iii)
d) (i), (iii) And (iv)

2. When turning at an intersection:
a) You have right of way when turning right
b) You may overtake another vehicle when turning right
c) You must stop if the robot turns red even if the flashing green filter arrow is on for you to turn right
d) None of the above

3. When approaching on intersection you must stop if
a) Passengers are waiting to be picked up
b) The robot turns to amber and you will stop over the line
c) There is a long queue of vehicles in front of you trying to cross the road
d) The robot turns amber and you can stop safely behind the stop line

4. When approaching a robot and the red light is flashing, you must:
a) Keep moving slowly through the intersection if there is no other traffic
b) Stop and, when safe, pull off again as on a four-way stop
c) Stop and wait for it to turn green before you can go
d) Stop because it indicates a police roadblock ahead

5. When turning right or left of on intersection you must:
a) Slow down to a safe speed and turn when it is safe
b) Indicate just before turning and turn when it is safe
c) Observe around you and indicate well in advance of the turn, slow down to a lower gear, and turn after ensuring that it is safe
d) Overtake another turning vehicle if it is moving too slowly

6. You may not enter an intersection if:
a) There is already traffic in the intersection waiting to move and the lights may change at any time
b) You want to turn right and there is not enough space in the intersection for other vehicles to turn safely
c) a) and b)
d) None of the above

7. When approaching a four-way stop, the driver mush
a) Stop behind the vehicle in front and drive off together with the other vehicle
b) Stop regardless of whether there is other traffic or not, and only move if it is safe to do so
c) Give the appropriate signal and then keep moving if there is no other traffic coming
d) Stop and only move off when there is no other traffic in sight

8. lf the vehicle you are towing hos defective brakes, you must:
(i) Only use a tow rope shorter than 3,5 m
(ii) Keep the speed slower than 30 km/h
(iii) Carry only two passengers in the towed vehicle
(iv) Only tow the vehicle with a tow bar
a) (i), (iii) And (iv)
b) (ii) And (iv)
c) (i)
d) (iv)

9. Name a few of the rules of towing:
(i) A tractor is allowed to pull a trailer carrying l0 passengers if travelling at 30 km/h
(ii) Only one passenger is allowed in the towed vehicle
(iii) When towing a vehicle on a freeway at 30 km/h you may use a tow rope
(iv) Your tow rope can be shorter than 1,8 m, but may not exceed 3,5 m
a) (i) And (iii)
b) (i), (iii) And (iv)
c) (ii) And (iv)
d) (i) And (iv)

10. When parking on a public road or night you may only use your parking lights:
(i) If you are in a parking area marked by traffic signs
(ii) If you are within l0 m of a lit street lamp
(iii) If you are parked well off the road
(iv) If you are parked in a street that is not painted with parking lines or properly lit
a) (iv)
b) (i), (iii) And (iv)
c) (ii)
d) (i), (ii) And (iii)

11. When do you switch on your headlights:
(i) From sunrise to sunset
(ii) If road users and vehicles are not clearly visible within 150 m
(iii) from when the sun goes down until it rises
(iv) In rain or mist and you cannot see 80 m in front of you
a) (i) And (iv)
b) (i), (ii) And (iii)
c) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
d) (i), (iii) And (iv)

12. What are the maximum distances that driving and passing beams should be able to illuminate:
a) Driving beams I00 m - passing beams 50 m
b) Driving beams I50 m - passing beams 75 m
c) Driving beams 100 m - passing beams 45 m
d) Driving beams 175 m - passing beams 50 m

13. When involved in an accident, what actions should you take:
(i) Immediately stop the vehicle
(ii) Check the nature and extent of the injuries suffered
(iii) Do not give anyone your name and address
(iv) If someone is badly injured or dead, do not move the vehicles until told to do so by a police officer
a) (i), (ii) and (iii)
b) (i), (iii) and (iv)
c) (i), (ii) and (iv)
d) (ii), (iii) and (iv)

14. if there is no serious damage or injury you must:
(i) move the vehicle if it is obstructing traffic
(ii) report the accident within 24 days
(iii) only ask the other person involved for a name
(iv) Take a small drink to help calm your nerves
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (i) And (ii)
c) (ii)
d) (i)

15. Choose a few important safe driving points:
(i) on a long drive, if you are feeling a little tired, stop and have a break
(ii) you should always wear soft rubber shoes
(iii) you should always be able to see clearly on all sides of the vehicle
(iv) your hands should be on the steering wheel ad all times
a) (i) And (ii)
b) (i) And (iii)
c) (ii) And (iv)
d) (ii), (iii) And (iv)

16. When you become aware that someone is trying to pass you, you must:
(i) drive a little faster
(ii) keep as for left as possible
(iii) do not accelerate
(iv) pull off the road and stop
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (ii) And (iii)
c) (iii) And (iv)
d) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)

17. Under what circumstances may you pass another vehicle on the left-hand side:
(i) If the vehicle is turning right at a corner and it is safe to do so without driving on the shoulder of the road
(ii) If you have been instructed to do so by a police officer
(iii) At all times when a vehicle is turning right
(iv) If you are driving in a road with two or more lanes going in the some direction
a) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)
b) (i) And (iii)
c) (i), (ii) And (iv)
d) (ii), (iii) And (iv)

18. You may not pass another vehicle:
(i) on a curve
(ii) in misty conditions when you cannot see at least 100 m ahead
(iii) near the crest of a hill
(iv) in a tunnel
a) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)
b) (i), (ii) And (iii)
c) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
d) (iii) And (iv)

19. You may not obtain a learner’s license if:
(i) you are older than 70 years, or younger than I8 years
(ii) you were declared unfit to obtain a license for a certain period and that period is not over
(iii) you suffer from epilepsy but the fits are controlled by medication
(iv) you are blind in one eye
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (ii)
c) (iii) And (iv)
d) (i) And (iv)

20. You are also not allowed to get a learner’s license if you:
(i) had a license suspended temporarily and that suspension is not over
(ii) have only one arm or one leg
(iii) Do not have the use of your legs
(iv) already have a license for the same class of vehicle
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
c) (i) And (iv)
d) (ii) And (iii)

21. Is your following distance safe if the vehicle in front of you suddenly stops and you arable to:
a) Swerve and pass the vehicle
b) Stop without swerving
c) hoot and accelerate past it
d) Swerve and stop your vehicle next to the other

22. the driver of a vehicle may not:
(i) Allow the vehicle to spill oil, water or petrol on the surface of the road
(ii) leave the vehicle unattended if the parking brake is up and the engine is not running
(iii) use a vehicle that does not have a fuel cap
(iv) let the wheels spin when pulling off.
a) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)
b) (i), (iii) and (iv)
c) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
d) (i), (ii) And (iv)

23. A driver may:
a) Allow a passenger to help him steer the vehicle
b) let a passenger ride on the bumper of a vehicle
c) leave the vehicle unattended while the engine is still running
d) use hand signals on a freeway in on emergency

24. Passengers may:
(i) use hand signals out of the window
(ii) ride in the vehicle if the driver only has a learner’s license
(iii) Change the channel of the radio for the driver
(iv) leave the vehicle before it has stopped
a) (i), (iii) And (iv)
b) (ii) And (iii)
c) (i), (ii) And (iv)
d) (ii), (iii) And (iv)

25. Under what conditions may you drive on the right-hand side of a two-way road:
a) If the traffic is moving too slowly in your lane
b) If you plan to turn right at the next corner
c) when ordered to do so by a police or traffic officer
d) under no circumstances

26. What is the minimum depth of the tread allowed on a tyre:
a) 0,75 mm over the whole surface
b) 1,0 mm over at least 80% of the surface
c) 1,25 mm over at least 70% of the surface
d) 1,0 mm over the whole surface

27. Where are you not allowed to stop:
(i) At any place where you would obscure a road traffic sign
(ii) alongside or opposite a vehicle where the road is 8 m wide
(iii) At any place where stopping would endanger or obstruct other traffic
(iv) on the right-hand side of the road facing oncoming traffic
a) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)
b) (ii) And (iii)
c) (i) And (iii)
d) (ii) And (iv)

28. The maximum legal speed at which you may drive on:
(i) freeways is I20 km/h
(ii) notional roads is 100 km/h
(iii) roads in most built-up areas is 60 km/h
(iv) None of the above
a) (i)
b) (i) And (ii)
c) (i) And (iii)
d) (i), (ii) And (iii)

29. Where is it legal to stop your vehicle:
a) 9 m from a pedestrian crossing
b) 5 m from a roadway crossing
c) 4mfromotunnel
d) opposite another vehicle where the road is 8 m wide

30. To avoid a fine, you must produce your license on request from a traffic officer:
a) within 24 hours
b) within 36 hours
c) Immediately
d) within 12 hours

31. Under normal circumstances it is legal for a driver to allow a passenger to do the following:
a) Shift the gears for him/her
b) hold the steering wheel
c) make hand signals
d) None of the above

32. it is permissible to park your vehicle within ......... of on intersection:
a) 4m
b) 3,5 m
c) 5m
d) None of the above

33. Seat belts must be worn:
a) when driving on all roods
b) while parking
c) when the vehicle is parked
d) All of the above

34. To avoid being fined, a driver must ensure that a small child sits:
a) on the driver's lop
b) on a passenger's lop
c) In a special child seat and is properly secured with a seat belt
d) All of the above

35. Under normal circumstances a driver may stop on a freeway to:
(i) pick up a hitchhiker
(ii) Change a flat tyre
(iii) Stretch his/her legs
(iv) Toke a break
a) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)
b) (i), (ii) And (iii)
c) (i)
d) (ii)

36. Your vehicle will be towed away and impounded if left:
a) for 12 hours in the some place next to a public road in a rural area
b) for 24 hours or more in the some place next to a public road in a rural area
c) for 5 days in the some place next to a public road in on urban area
d) All of the above

37. What is the longest lime you may leave your vehicle parked in one place next to a public road in on urban area:
a) 21 days
b) 10 days
c) 7 days
d) 6 days

38. Under normal circumstances you may do the following:
a) fill up with petrol while the engine is running
b) Drive on a sidewalk
c) move backwards without checking for safety
d) None of the above

39. You may not use your hooter except under the following circumstances:
a) to signal to someone that you want to offer them a lift
b) in on attempt to avoid a collision
c) to tell the driver in front to go faster
d) none of the above

40. What else is important about the hooter:
a) you must be able to hear it from at least 40 m away
b) you can only hoot once in front of a hospital
c) the tone or pitch of the sound may not change
d) none of the above

41. Under which of the following circumstances do you have right of way:
(i) when you arrive first at a four-way slop
(ii) when you are entering a traffic circle and there is a vehicle approaching from the right
(iii) when you are in a traffic circle
(iv) when turning right at a two-way road intersection
a) (i) And (ii)
b) (ii) And {iii)
c) (ii) And (iv)
d) (i) And (iii)

42. Is a vehicle license valid for:
a) 24 months
b) 6 months
c) 90 days
d) l2 months

43. What are the legal requirements for carrying goods on your vehicle:
(i) They must not interfere with the driver's view
(ii) They must not exceed a width of 3 m
(iii) They must not protrude more than 1,8 m at the rear
(iv) They must not touch the surface of the road
a) (i), (ii) And (iv)
b) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
c) (i), (iii) And (iv)
d) (i) And (iv)

44. Before changing lanes the first thing you must do is:
a) check your mirror
b) check the road ahead
c) check your blind spot
d) none of the above

45. What is a safe following distance at all speeds:
a) 3 seconds
b) 2 seconds
c) 4 seconds
d) All of the above

46. When making on urgent slop, it tokes:
(i) longer if the vehicle is at a higher speed
(ii) longer on a wet road than a dry road
(iii) longer if the vehicle is heavily loaded
(iv) longer on a dry road than on a wet road
a) (i), (ii) And (iv)
b) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
c) (i), (ii) And (iii)
d) (i), (iii) and (iv)

47. Unless otherwise indicated by a road traffic sign, the general speed you may travel in a town or city is:
a) 90 km/h
b) 80 km/h
c) 60 km/h
d) 40 km/h

48. What is the most important rule of the road in South Africa:
a) never exceed the speed limit
b) keep as far to the left as is safe
c) always stop to give someone help in case of a breakdown
d) always be a courteous and helpful driver

49. A learner driver may not:
(i) Drive on a freeway
(ii) Carry passengers
(iii) reverse more than 90 m
(iv) leave the engine running while the vehicle is unattended
a) (i), (ii) And (iii)
b) (iv)
c) (ii) And (iv)
d) (i), (ii), (iii) And (iv)

50. When changing lanes, you must:
a) Indicate that you are going to change lanes
b) apply your brakes a few times, then change lanes
c) Check for traffic behind and in the blind spot, then signal and change lanes when it is safe
d) None of the above

51. You may enter or cross a public rood if:
a) you put your indicator on long before
b) The road is clear of traffic for a shod distance
c) you cross quickly before the road is too busy
d) you are sure that the road is clear of traffic for a long distance

52. When you become aware of an emergency vehicle sounding q siren on a public road, you must:
a) Stop and direct traffic
b) give right of way to the emergency vehicle
c) Switch on your emergency lights, blow your hooter and lead the way for the emergency vehicle while flashing your lights
d) None of the above

53. What is the rule for wearing seat belts in a vehicle:
(i) Children younger than 14 years do not need to wear seat belts
(ii) while reversing you don't have to wear a seat belt
(iii) If you have only one passenger, he/she may sit in the bock where there are no seat belts
(iv) If the vehicle you are using has seat belts in the front or the bock, they must be worn
a) (i), (iii) And (iv)
b) (ii), (iii) And (iv)
c) (ii) And (iv)
d) (i), (ii) And (iv)

54. lf you have q learners license for a light motor vehicle you:
a) Can drive to work by yourself if it is very early in the morning and there is no traffic about
b) Can only drive if there is someone in the vehicle who hos a license of the some code
c) Cannot drive on a freeway
d) Cannot carry passengers

55. On Sketch 4, road marking RTM1 means that:
a) If you are in vehicle A you may treat this as a yield
b) If you are in vehicle B, you must slow down with vehicle A and when it moves off you can move with it
c) vehicle A must stop before the line RTM 1
d) If vehicle B sees vehicle A stop at the line, and the intersection is clear, it can quickly go past vehicle A

56. On Sketch 5, arrow D shows that you:
a) must proceed straight on
b) must proceed straight on or turn right
c) must turn right
d) must proceed straight on or turn left

57. road marking A in Sketch 6 tells you that:
a) this is a stopping area for emergency vehicles only
b) this is a reserved area for motorcycles
c) you may not slop or park here at anytime
d) none of the above

58. road marking B in Sketch 6 tells you that:
a) this is a lane for trucks only
b) you may not stop your vehicle next to this line during the time period indicated on an accompanying sign
c) this lane is for emergency vehicles only
d) none of the above

59. In Sketch Z vehicle A hos broken down. To go post vehicle A, vehicle B must:
a) wait until vehicle A moves again, then follow it
b) wait until it is safe, then do the necessary observations and overtake
c) Try to squeeze between the white line and vehicle A as quickly as possible
d) None of the above

60. In Sketch 8, if you want to change from lane L1 to lane L2, you must:
a) Indicate and change lanes quickly
b) Check for safety and then change lanes quickly
c) look in the mirrors and blind spots, indicate, check for safety, and then change lanes
d) wait until you stop at the robot, then change lanes

61. In Sketch 8, under what conditions are you allowed to drive to the left of yellow line RM 4.1:
a) when you want to drive slower than I00 km/h
b) if your tyre is flat and you need to change it
c) if the faster cars behind want to pass you
d) none of the above

62. What does the road marking GM 1 in Sketch 9 tell you:
a) that you may not cross when you see these lines
b) that these are the lane lines for all road users
c) that these lines are found only on freeways
d) none of the above

63. Road markings RTM 3 in Sketch 8 tell us that:
a) these lines divide the traffic
b) these are the stop lines for an intersection
c) these are the lines for pedestrians to cross at
d) none of the above

1. D
2. D
3. D
4. B
5. C
6. C
7. B
8. D
9. A
10. A
11. C
12. C
13. C
14. D
15. B
16. B
17. C
18. A
19. B
20. C
21. B
22. B
23. D
24. B
25. C
26. D
27. A
28. D
29. A
30. C
31. D
32. D
33. A
34. C
35. D
36. B
37. C
38. D
39. B
40. C
41. D
42. D
43. C
44. C
45. B
46. C
47. C
48. B
49. B
50. C
51. D
52. B
53. C
54. B
55. C
56. B
57. C
58. B
59. B
60. C
61. B
62. B
63. C