1. What is the minimum age that is required to obtain a learner's license for a light motor vehicle, the mass of which does not exceed 3500 kg & for what period of time is this license valid for?
a) 18 years, 18 months
b) 17 years, 24 months
c) 17 years, 12 months

2. Sign ... tells you that...
a) You may proceed carefully
b) No delivery vehicle may enter
c) No vehicle may proceed past this sign

3. Sign ... tells you that...
a) You must switch on your head lamps
b) You must dip your head lamps
c) You must switch off your head lamps

4. Sign ... prohibits you from...
a) Turning at this point
b) Making a "U" turn at this point
c) Turning right at this point

5. Sign ... commands that...
a) You may overtake on the left in this one
b) You may drive to the right of the sign
c) You must drive in the direction of the signs indicated by the arrow

6. You are allowed to unfasten your seatbelt while reversing, this statement is...
a) False
b) True, only in certain situations
c) True

7. What is the safe following distance between two vehicles
a) 10 - 12 seconds
b) 20 - 25 seconds
c) 1001 - 1002 seconds

8. Are you allowed to park in a one way street
a) No
b) Yes
c) Only in this sidewalk

9. When may you cross a non-overtaking line. A solid white line
a) To avoid an obstruction on the road
b) To overtake another vehicle
c) If you think it is safe to do so

10. This sign ... warns that...
a) There is a narrow bridge ahead
b) There is a gate ahead
c) There is a narrow tunnel ahead

11. This sign ... warns that...
a) There is a bumpy road ahead
b) There is a two-way traffic ahead
c) There is a crossroad ahead

12. This sign ... warns that...
a) There is a pedestrian crossing ahead
b) There are children ahead
c) There is a shopping ahead

13. Look at sketch 4, vehicle B
a) Must drive past vehicle A if there are no cars
b) Can drive over the stop line following vehicle A
c) Must stop behind vehicle A nearer when vehicle A has driven off, stop behind the stop line and drive off when it is safe to do so

14. Arrow A, sketch 5 shows that you...
a) Must turn left
b) Must proceed straight on your turn right
c) May turn left

15. Sign ... warns you that...
a) There are stones falling from above
b) There are loose stones on the road ahead
c) There are road works ahead

16. A prohibition color codes are:
a) Yellow and white disk
b) A red, white and black
c) A black symbol on a white disk with a red border

17. A vehicle thread pattern on all vehicles must be at least
a) 1 mm deep
b) 2 mm deep
c) 3 mm deep

18. You may stop...
a) 15 m away from a bridge
b) Within 9 m of the approach side of a pedestrian crossing
c) Next to or opposite another vehicle where the road is less than 9 m wide

19. Is a passenger vehicle allowed to park in a loading zone
a) Yes only to off-load passengers
b) Yes only to load goods
c) Not at all

20. When are we allowed to use hazard lights on a motor vehicle...
a) Only to be used if your vehicle breaks down on a public road
b) When you are towing another vehicle
c) To thank another motorist for allowing you to overtake

21. Abandoned vehicles may...
a) Not be removed by anyone
b) Be removed and impounded by a traffic officer
c) Be removed by passer-bys who feel that it is likely to be a cause of danger

22. The seatbelts have been removed from your vehicle. Which rule is applicable here?
a) Vehicles may be used on a public road until you get them replaced
b) This rule does not apply for vehicles older than two years
c) The vehicle may not be used on a public road

23. Which of the following actions are permissible?
a) A passenger may steer the vehicle
b) A baby may travel on the driver's lap while he/she is driving
c) None of the above

24. Sign ... forbids
a) Parking in this area for longer than 3 hours
b) Motor cars from driving on this rod between 6 o'clock and 9 o'clock
c) Motor cars from stopping in this area

25. Sign ... warns that...
a) There is a possibility of slow moving vehicles
b) There is a general road ahead
c) There is a road work ahead

26. Which indicates height limit?
a) 
b) 
c) 

27. On sketch 4, road marking RTM1 means that...
a) Vehicle A must treat this as a yield sign
b) Vehicle B is allowed to pass vehicle A
c) Vehicle A must stop before the line RTM1

28. Sign ... tells you
a) To yield at mini circle
b) To yield at pedestrians
c) To yield and give way to traffic on the road you are crossing

29. Sign ... warns that
a) There are two lanes ahead
b) There is a dual road
c) There is a tunnel ahead

30. Sign ... forbids you...
a) To make a "U" turn in this area
b) To overtake on the right
c) To turn right

31. Beyond which sign you find a police road block
a) 
b) 
c) 

32. Sign ... tells you that...
a) You are at the beginning of a toll road and that you must pay toll at the toll plaza
b) You are approaching a tunnel
c) There is a taxi stand ahead

33. Sign ... shows that...
a) You may not enter beyond this point
b) You are approaching a two or more railway track level crossing
c) You are approaching a double boom gates ahead

34. Sign ... warns that...
a) There is a sharp junction ahead
b) There are power pylons ahead
c) That the dual roadway you are travelling comes to an end ahead

35. Sign ... warns you that you are approaching...
a) A gravel road
b) A winding road
c) A staggered junction

36. The chevron ... with the arrow heads pointing outwards shows:
a) There is a boom barricade
b) That the road is closed at this point
c) The positioning of the adjoining road at a "T" junction

37. In sketch 7, vehicle A has broken down. To get past Vehicle A, the vehicle travelling behind vehicle A must:
a) Wait until it is safe, then do necessary observations and overtake
b) Try to squeeze between the white lines and vehicle A as quickly as possible
c) Wait until vehicle A has been moved out of the roadway

38. Sign ... warns you that
a) There is a "T" junction ahead
b) There are curves ahead
c) There are concealed driveways on the left and the right

39. Sign ... prohibits you from
a) Picking up hitch-hikers for the next 2 km
b) Overtaking for the next 100 m
c) Stopping to pick up hitch-hikers for 500 m beyond this sign

40. Road marking ... shows you that:
a) A dual roadway begins ahead
b) You may not stop in this area
c) You may not cross or overtake in this area

41. Which of the ... indicates that there is a two-way traffic ahead
a)
b) 
c) 

42. Sign ... indicates that.
a) This area is reserved for rickshaws
b) This area is reserved for animals drawn vehicles
c) This area is reserved for vehicles transporting disabled persons

43. Sign ... shows a flashing light. What can you expect?
a) There is a temporary hazard
b) There is a traffic signal ahead
c) There is a stop sign ahead

44. In sketch 8, if you want to change from lane 1 to lane 2 you must
a) Wait and stop at the traffic lights
b) Indicate and change lanes quickly
c) Look in the mirrors and blind spots, indicate, check for safety and then change lanes

45. On sketch 4, there is a priority crossroads, which of the following statements are incorrect
a) Vehicle A is driving on the main road
b) Vehicle A has a priority in this case
c) Vehicle on the other road has priority
d) Both A and B

46. Which of the following road markings warns of a railway crossing ahead?
a) 
b) 
c) 

47. Sign ... denotes
a) Parking for taxis only
b) Toll free parking
c) Parking for tourist buses only

48. Sign ... warns that
a) There are detours ahead
b) There is winding roads ahead with curves
c) There is a slippery surface ahead

49. Which of the following signs indicates there are low flying aircraft ahead?
a) 
b) 
c) 

50. Which sign indicates height limit?
a) 
b) 
c) 

51. Which sign indicates that only motor cars may park here
a) 
b) 
c) 

52. Which of the following traffic signals indicates a flashing red arrow which means that you must stop and may proceed to the left if there is no crossing traffic?
a)
b)
c) 

53. Which of the following traffic signals indicates that there is an arrestor bed line ahead?
a) 
b) 
c) 

54. Which sign means that you may pay toll fees?
a) 
b) 
c) 

55. Which of the following flag signal means that you must slow down / proceed slowly?
a) 
b) 
c) 

56. Which of the following reservation signs indicate that a specific parking is reserved for vehicles conveying dangerous goods?
a) 
b) 
c) 

57. Which of the following signs indicate a sharp turn to the left?
a) 
b) 
c) 

58. Sign ... warns you that
a) The traffic signal ahead is out of order
b) There is a traffic signal ahead
c) There are emergency flashing lights ahead

59. Control signs tell you when to stop, yield or where you are not allowed to enter, etc are
a) White on a green background
b) White on a red background
c) White on a blue background

60. People herding animals on a public road, they must select the correct combination
a) Carry a red flag during the day. Carry a red flag at night. These must be displayed 150 m ahead of, and behind the herd
b) Carry a yellow flag during the day. Carry a yellow flag at night. These must be displayed 100 m behind the herd
c) Carry a green flag during the day. Carry a green flag at night. These must be displayed 50 m behind the herd

61. A load may not project more than ... to the rear
a) 1 m
b) 1.8 m
c) 140 m

62. What is the rule concerning emergency and construction vehicles as far as parking is concerned
a) You may not park in a no-stopping area
b) They may not park closer than 5 m of an intersection
c) They may park anywhere while on official business they must, display necessary identification lamps

63. Your hooter may be audible for at least ... meters
a) 90 m
b) 100 m
c) 80 m

64. Which of the following statements is incorrect
a) You may stop and pick up hitch-hikers on the freeway
b) You may not stop in a tunnel
c) You may not park on a traffic island

65. Under which conditions will you be allowed to drive a motor vehicle on a public road once you have passed your learners? WHICH STATEMENT IS NOT TRUE
a) You must drive under supervision of a person in possession of a valid driver's license for the same category of vehicle as at which you intend to drive
b) The person should be seated in the back seat of a vehicle on the left hand side
c) The person should be seated next to you or directly behind you if he/she cannot sit next to you

66. What is the general speed limit on a road that is not a freeway or an urban road unless otherwise by a road traffic sign
a) 60 km/h
b) 12 km/h
c) 100 m/h

67. A flat raised hand of a traffic officer means
a) Slow down
b) Proceed with caution
c) Stop

68. What must you do if you missed an exit on a freeway
a) Reverse to the turn off
b) Make a "U" turn and go back
c) Carry on until you can safely exit the freeway by means of another exit

69. Your vehicle has been fitted with seat belts on the seats, which of the following rules apply here?
a) The driver and the passengers are compelled to wear seatbelts
b) Only the people in the front need to wear seatbelts
c) Only the driver needs to wear seatbelts

70. A traffic or police officer is allowed to over-rule any road sign or rule of the road
a) True, on the execution of his duties
b) False
c) True, only in certain situations

71. Will the examiner fail you if you adjust your mirror while driving?
a) Yes, it could cause an accident
b) No
c) No, because you're not endangering other road users

72. You are driving on a public road and your cellular phone rings, what must you do?
a) Answer your call if you feel it is safe to do so
b) Pull off the road where it is safe and answer your call
c) Answer your call and ask the person to call you back later

73. The blind spot
a) Is the area behind an advertising board
b) Is the area that you cannot see in your mirrors
c) Is the area on the windscreen your license the disk is fixed

74. A warning sign color codes are:
a) Yellow and blue triangle
b) Blue and white disk
c) A black symbol on a white background with red borders (triangle)

75. Which of the following statements is correct?
a) You must keep your driver's license at home in a safe place
b) You must have your driver's licence on you  when driving
c) You can ask your supervisor to lock it up in the safe at work for safe keeping

76. Which statement is not correct
a) You may not stop in a tunnel
b) A hooter may be used to greet friends
c) On freeways the speed limit for light motor vehicles is 120 km/h

77. Temporary road signs have a ... background
a) Red
b) Yellow
c) Blue

78. You have been involved in an accident ... SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) Immediately stop your vehicle. Report the accident within 24 hours. Assist in the injured
b) See what damages have been caused. Take an intoxication breathalyzer. Summon the police
c) Immediately stop the vehicle. Move the vehicle if it is causing a traffic congestion. If someone has been killed report to the police

79. Road marking (B) in sketch 6 tells you that:
a) Only ambulances may stop here
b) This lane is for dangerous goods vehicles only
c) You may not stop next to this line during the time period indicated in the sign displayed on the road

80. In sketch 8, under what conditions are you allowed to drive left of the yellow line RM4
a) When you want to drive slower than a 100 km/h
b) If the faster cars behind you want to pass you
c) If your car breaks down

81. What should you do if you are being overtaken by another vehicle
a) Apply your brakes and pull over to the left side of the road
b) Release the accelerator pedal and slow down if necessary
c) Accelerate

82. Look in sketch 6, when you see the road marking (A) you know that
a) May not stop there at all times
b) May stop there at night
c) May stop here over weekends

83. What does a flashing red light, at a traffic light tell you:
a) It tells you to watch out for pedestrians
b) It tells you that there was an accident ahead
c) Tells you that you should treat this intersection as a 4 way stop

84. What is a function of a guidance and information sign:
a) They control and direct traffic flows
b) They warn of potential hazards
c) They serve as navigational aids

85. Which of the following pedestrians have right of way
a) A person waiting at a red traffic light
b) A person waiting at a pedestrian crossing
c) A person crossing the road at a distance of 20 m from a pedestrian crossing

86. If your vehicle's driver's seatbelt has been broken you may use, your vehicle on a public road
a) No
b) Yes
c) Yes, only if you have a letter from a garage

87. Which of the following rules you observe at a pedestrian crossing? SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) Stop for pedestrians about to enter the crossing. Stop for pedestrians on the crossing. Hoot to indicate to pedestrians that they must cross
b) Stop for pedestrians on the crossing. Do not overtake stationary vehicles at the crossing. Proceed only if it is safe to do so
c) Stop behind the white line. You are allowed to overtake stationary vehicles at the crossing if it is safe to do so. Stop for any pedestrians in the vicinity

88. How often should you look at your rear view mirror while driving?
a) At least every 5 - 8 seconds
b) At least every 10 - 15 seconds
c) At least every 15 - 20 seconds

89. You are approaching a traffic light, the light is amber this means that you must
a) Cross the intersection if there is no longer traffic
b) Cross the intersection if there are no pedestrians
c) If it is safe to do so stop before the stop line and wait for the green light

90. Where may you not reverse a vehicle? SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) On freeways. Down one way streets
b) On a public road. In an urban area
c) In a parking area. At an intersection

91. Which of the following can be regarded as abandoned vehicles? SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) A vehicle whose owner cannot be identified. A vehicle that is damaged illegally. A vehicle that is likely to cause an obstruction
b) A vehicle that is parked illegally. A vehicle that is parked in a no stopping area. A vehicle that has been parked for 12 hours in the same place on an urban road
c) A vehicle whose owner cannot be identified. A vehicle parked in a no stopping area. A vehicle that has been parked for 3 days in the same place on an urban road

92. For what distance beyond a no overtaking sign are you not allowed to overtake a vehicle travelling in the same direction:
a) 500 m
b) 300 m
c) 800 m

93. What is the speed limit unless indicated by a regulatory sign for mini buses conveying passengers on a freeway
a) 80 km/h
b) 120 km/h
c) 100 km/h

94. What document should you always carry in your vehicle when driving?
a) ID & passport
b) Driving or learners license
c) Birth certificate

95. You are driving a light motor vehicle, who is exempt from using a seatbelt in this vehicle
a) A child of 10 years old seating next to the driver
b) A person who has a medical certificate and drivers who are busy reversing
c) Elderly people

96. Your goods vehicle has broken on a public road; you may display an emergency sign at least ... meters behind the vehicle
a) 20 m
b) 30 m
c) 45 m

97. You are allowed to drive over the dividing space or barrier on divided roads in the following conditions / situation
a) At an intersection or opening where it is not prohibited by a road sign or a traffic officer
b) If there is no vehicle driving next to you at a specific time
c) If there is no oncoming traffic

98. Is it advisable to drive with your foot on the clutch pedal?
a) Yes, because it will enable you to achieve a smooth movement
b) Yes, it is a place to rest your foot
c) No, because it could cause unnecessary wear on your clutch and pressure plate

99. What is the function of regulatory road signs
a) They control and direct traffic flow
b) They warn of potential hazards
c) They serve as navigational aids

100. WHICH STATEMENT IS CORRECT
a) You may stagger lane lines
b) The general speed limit for a light motor vehicle on a road in urban area is 100 km/h
c) You may not park in a traffic island

101. You may drive through an amber traffic light if: WHICH STATEMENT IS CORRECT
a) There is no time for emergency stop
b) There is no other traffic at the intersection
c) Your vehicle is already over the speed limit

102. You have been involved in an accident, but you have not been injured, are you allowed to refuse to give blood or breath to specimen?
a) No
b) Yes
c) Yes, not until you have your attorney

103. You are driving on a single lane road. When may you drive on the left-hand shoulder to allow other vehicles to overtake: SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION?
a) At night. It is safe to do so. If persons and vehicles are clearly visible 100 m away
b) Between sunrise and sunset. Persons and vehicles can be seen 150 m away. If it is safe to do so
c) If it is safe to do so. Between sunrise and sunset. Persons and vehicles are clearly visible for 100 m

104. A road is divided by a painted island or physical barrier, when are you allowed to cross this type of road?
a) You may cross at any place you think its safe
b) Only at an opening or space specification indicated for its purpose
c) You may not cross the road under any circumstances

105. You may stop on a freeway for the following reasons: select the correct combination
a) It is a safe designated parking area. In accordance with a traffic officer's instruction. It is for a cause beyond driver's control
b) It is in a designated stopping area. In accordance of the road sign. You want to have a sandwich and pull over on the shoulder of the road
c) In accordance with a traffic officer's instruction. In accordance with a road sign. If you feel you are not endangering other road signs

106. You may only conduct a race or sports meeting on a public road
a) If you get permission from people living in the area
b) If you get up information boards
c) If you get permission from the relevant traffic authority to do so

107. When should you drive your vehicle with its head lamps set on the main beam?
a) At night on open roads
b) Where there are no vehicles travelling ahead of you or oncoming towards you
c) Both of the above

108. You are approaching a pedestrian crossing, how must you react?
a) Give way to the pedestrian who are crossing
b) Slow down and hoot
c) You do not have to give way to pedestrians who are waiting to cross

109. There are certain conditions that prevent you from obtaining a driver's license, there are... SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
(i) You already have a license for the same class of vehicles
(ii) You have previously been disqualified by a court of law and this disqualification is still in force
(iii) Your license has been suspended temporarily and the suspension has not yet expired
a) None of the above
b) Only (i) and (iii) are correct
c) All of the above are correct

110. Sign ... tells you that...
a) To yield at a mini circle
b) To yield at some intersection
c) To yield to pedestrians

111. Sign ... tells you that...
a) You must travel slower than speed requirements
b) You must travel at
c) You must stop 50 m ahead

112. Look at sketch 6, when you see road markings, you know that you
a) May not park there because it is reserved for ambulances only
b) May only park there at night
c) May not park there at all

113. If you want to obtain a learners license your knowledge about certain aspects will be tested, they are... SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
(i) Controls of the type of vehicle you intend to drive
(ii) Road traffic signs
(iii) Traffic rules
a) (ii) only
b) All of the above
c) (i) & (ii) only

114. What does the road marking RM5 in sketch 9 tell you
a) That you may stop there
b) That this is a painted island and that you may not ride over
c) That it is a parking bay

115. Who has a right of way at a junction where traffic is required to move around a traffic island
a) Pedestrians
b) Heavy motor vehicles
c) Vehicles within the junction approaching from the right

116. The dipped beams of a motor vehicle should: SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) Be used in urban area. Be used in dense traffic. Strike the road surface
b) Be used in rural areas. Be used in dense traffic. Only be used when there is no approaching traffic
c) Be used between sunrise and sunset. Be used on a misty day. Strike on the road surface not more than 150 m areas of the vehicle

117. Which of the following actions is compulsory?
a) Set the hand-brake before leaving the vehicle unattended
b) Switch your head-lamps on at 17h30 in winter
c) Give right of way to elderly people

118. What is the stopping distance behind another vehicle
a) 4 m or one vehicle ahead
b) 2 m
c) 1.5 m

119. When you are towing another vehicle, the maximum distance between the two vehicles must be:
a) 2 m
b) 5 m
c) 3.5 m

120. There is a fire hydrant on the sidewalk, where are you allowed to park?
a) 15 m away on either side of the hydrant
b) Adjacent to the hydrant
c) 1 m away on either side of the hydrant

121. What must you do at the entrance of a tunnel?
a) Switch on your head lamps and proceed through the tunnel with your bright beams on
b) Switch on your head lamps and dip the beam
c) Switch on your parking lamps

122. Sign ... tells you
a) To yield to pedestrians
b) To yield at the mini circle
c) To yield at some intersections and give way to traffic on the road that you are approaching

123. Sign ... warns that
a) There may be animals moving suddenly across the road
b) No hunting is allowed in this area
c) There is a guest farm ahead

124. Sign ... prohibits you from
a) Turning left at this point
b) Making a "U" turn at this point
c) Turning at this point

125. Sign ... prohibits you from
a) Sounding a horn for 500 m
b) Sounding a horn for 300 m
c) Sounding a horn/hooter for 100 m beyond this point

126. Sign ... warns that
a) There is a speed bump ahead
b) There is a bumpy road ahead
c) There is a mini circle ahead

127. Sign ... instructs you to
a) Stop
b) Slow down
c) Yield

128. Sign ... shows that this area is reserved for
a) Taxis
b) Motor vehicles
c) Mini buses

129. Sign ... warns you that
a) The road narrows from the right-hand side
b) The freeway ends here
c) The road narrows from both sides

130. Sign ... warns that
a) There are dangerous curves ahead
b) There is a reduced visibility ahead
c) There is a slippery road ahead

131. Sign ... prohibits you from driving
a) Too fast because of heavy mist
b) Faster than 100 km/h at night
c) Slower than 100 km/h

132. Sign ... warns that
a) There is a river ahead
b) There is a drift ahead which may contain water or debris
c) There is a weighbridge

133. The diagrammatic sign ... indicates
a) The converting of traffic lanes
b) The right lane splits
c) There is an additional lane

134. Sign ... indicates that
a) You may not turn right
b) You may not take a "U" turn for the next 500 m
c) You may not take a "U" turn where this sign is displayed

135. Sign ... is a regulatory road marking that indicates
a) A point at which right of way must be yielded to other traffic
b) That you must reverse
c) That you may not stop here

136. Sign ... warns that
a) There is a road crossing ahead
b) There are road works ahead
c) There is a priority crossroad ahead

137. What is the meaning of sign...
a) You must drive at least 80 km/h
b) It warns drivers that if they exceed 60 km/h they must be prosecuted by a speed timing camera
c) You must drive in the slower lane

138. What does sign ... means if it faces you on the road?
a) Be on the lookout for a yellow flashing light
b) You have right of way
c) Slow down and give way to other vehicles

139. Sign ... indicates that
a) The road is a one way roadway
b) You must look out for traffic on your right
c) You are allowed to park here

140. What is the meaning of sign ... ?
a) It warns of a dead end to the right
b) It shows an entrance to a shopping center
c) It warns of a dead end to the left

141. Sign ... indicates that
a) Only motor vehicles may ride here
b) Only pedal cycles may ride here
c) Drivers must be aware of cyclists

142. Which of the signs indicate that you must give right of way to other traffic?
a) 
b) 
c) 

143. Sign...
a) Controls the number of vehicles in the lane at a given time
b) Controls the minimum speed limit in this lane
c) Controls the maximum speed limit in this lane

144. Hazard marker ... shows that
a) There is a hazard and the danger plate indicates that you must pass the hazard on the side to which the white stripes point
b) There are sharp bends to the left
c) There is a ditch next to the road

145. Generally, guidance and information signs have green or brown background. What color background do the boards have on freeways?
a) Blue
b) Red
c) Yellow

146. Which of the following signs specifically shows that the parking is exclusively for mini-buses?
a) 
b) 
c) 

147. You are approaching traffic lights, the red disk light is flashing this means that you must
a) Slow down
b) Proceed with caution
c) Stop as a 4-way stop and yield to pedestrians

148. The background color of the temporary road signs is predominantly
a) Yellow
b) Red
c) Blue

149. The vehicles are not allowed on a freeway: SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) Motor cycles 50cc or less. Animal drawn vehicles. Special vehicles 230 kgs or less designed for disabled persons
b) Mini buses. Heavy motor vehicles. Motor cycles 125cc or more
c) Tractors doing freeway maintenance. Buses. Light motor vehicles

150. In sketch 7, vehicle A has broken down. To get past Vehicle A, the vehicle travelling behind vehicle A must:
a) Wait until it is safe, then do necessary observations and overtake
b) Try to squeeze between the white lines and vehicle A as quickly as possible
c) Wait until vehicle A has been moved out of the roadway

151. Road marking (A) in sketch 6 tells you that
a) You may not stop next to this lane
b) Only ambulances may stop here
c) This lane is for dangerous goods vehicles only

152. Which statement is false as far as the general duties of a driver is concerned?
a) Not allow passengers on & off the vehicle while it is moving
b) Not run the engine if it is giving off excessive smoke or fumes
c) Leave the engine running while the fuel is being pumped into the vehicle

153. Under which circumstances may you not let your engine run?
a) While you are sitting on the driver seat and talking to a friend in front of his house
b) While you are awaiting a traffic light
c) While you are filling up fuel

154. You want to turn left an intersection, which proceeding should be followed?
a) Indicate your intention, wait for crossing pedestrians and keep as close as possible to the left side of the road
b) Indicate your intention, indicate to pedestrians to wait and turn left
c) Indicate your intention, cut through if at the traffic is taking too long

155. What is the speed limit for buses and mini buses conveying passengers outside urban areas?
a) 100 km/h
b) 120 km/h
c) 80 km/h

156. A zigzag zone indicate an area where
a) You may pass other vehicles
b) Buses may park
c) You may not stop except to yield to pedestrians

157. What is the last action before changing lanes
a) Flash your lights
b) Sound your hooter
c) Check your blind spot to ensure that it is still safe to change lanes

158. What does the road marking RM5 in sketch 8 tell you?
a) That it is a parking zone
b) That you may stop there
c) That it is a painted traffic island and that you may not ride over it

159. Road marking RTM 3 tells us that
a) These lines divide the traffic
b) These lines are for pedestrians to cross
c) These are stop lines

160. Arrow D in sketch 5 shows you that you
a) Must turn right
b) Must proceed straight on to the right
c) Must turn left

161. Which rule must be adhered to when towing a vehicle? SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) The two vehicles must not be more than 5 m apart. The rope must be securely attached. The towed vehicle must have efficient brakes
b) Don't exceed 50 km/h. The two vehicles must not be more than 4 m apart. No passengers are allowed in the towed vehicle
c) The person controlling the towed vehicle must have a valid license for the class of vehicle being towed. The towed vehicle must have efficient brakes. The two vehicles must not be more than 3.5 m apart.

162. You have missed an exit on a freeway, what must you do
a) Reverse to the turn off
b) Stop
c) Drive on to the next exit

163. There are different types of hazards, which type do the following fall under? BRIDGES, T-JUNCTIONS, TREES
a) Moving hazards
b) Fixed hazards
c) Changing hazards

164. A flashing yellow light tells you that:
a) To proceed slowly with caution
b) To yield for any pedestrians crossing the road
c) Both of the above

165. Which of the following is correct, as uses of cell phones is concerned?
a) You may hold/operate on a cell in your hand while driving if you are not endangering other road users
b) You are not allowed to hold/operate a hand cell while driving
c) You may use a cell in your hand while driving if you are in a heavy traffic going very slowly, and you are late for work, and you want to notify the office

166. Double white line separating two lanes of traffic moving in opposite directions means that
a) You may cross to access property
b) No traffic may cross the solid white lines for any reason
c) You may overtake if it is safe to do so

167. When is it compulsory for you to stop your vehicle: SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) When signalled to do so. When your vehicle has been involved in an accident. When signalled to do so by a person leading animals
b) When signalled to do so by a person driving farm animals. If another driver gives you a signal on a freeway. If you are involved in an accident
c) Within a railway reserve at a level crossing. When signalled to do so by a person driving farm animals. When signalled to do so by a hitch-hiker.

168. Your vehicle breaks down on a freeway. What must you do?
a) Put your hazards lamps on
b) Get your vehicle as far off the road as possible
c) Both of the above

169. When may you overtake a vehicle on the left: SELECT CORRECT COMBINATION
a) When it is safe to do so. If the vehicle you are passing is turning right. On a one way urban road that is wide enough for two or more cars to drive abreast
b) When a vehicle has stopped at a pedestrian crossing. On a curve. When approaching a hill
c) When it is a straight road. When your view is not obstructed. If the space to the left of the edge line marking is open on a single lane road

170. What is the general speed limit on an urban roads unless otherwise indicated by a regulatory sign?
a) 40 km\h
b) 60 km\h
c) 80 km\h

171. You are not allowed to sit in the driver's seat of a private motor vehicle while the engine is running, if you have concentration of alcohol in your blood
a) 0.05 grams of alcohol per 100 ml blood or more
b) 0.02 grams of alcohol per 100 ml blood or more
c) 0.08 grams of alcohol per 100 ml blood or more

172. This is a 4-way stop ahead, how should you react: SELECT THE CORRECT COMBINATION
a) Stop. Wait until the driver says to proceed. Give way to traffic
b) Stop. Move off when it is safe to do so. Vehicles must move off in the sequence they arrived at the stop street
c) Slow down. Move off because you have right of way. Only give way to pedestrians

173. Both hands should be on the steering wheel at all times as far as possible, what is the correct position of the driving wheel while driving?
a) The twelve o'clock position
b) They should be at the quarter to three or ten to two position
c) The half past six position

174. Are you as the driver of the vehicle, responsible for ensuring that all passengers wear seatbelts?
a) Yes, you must ensure that all passengers wear seatbelts
b) No, you are not responsible
c) No, you must ensure that children under fourteen years wear seatbelts, adults are responsible for themselves

175. Which of the following statements are correct?
a) Hand signals may not be used on freeways, except in emergencies
b) Hand signals may only be used on motor cycles
c) Hand signals are used by tractor drivers only

176. You may drive on the shoulder left of the yellow edge line under certain circumstances. WHICH STATEMENT IS WRONG?
a) On a single lane road between sunrise and sunset to allow other vehicles to overtake
b) If it is safe to do so and visibility is clear for 150 m
c) If it is safe to do so and visibility is clear for 50 m

177. What does the road marking RM3 in sketch 9 indicate?
a) That you may not cross the marking to proceed to another lane
b) There are mandatory directions arrows ahead
c) There is an intersection ahead

178. The road marking ... shows that
a) You are allowed to park here for 1 hour
b) You must keep this are clear at all times
c) Buses are allowed to stop here

179. When you see road marking ... on the road, you must
a) Drive on this painted island to allow others to park
b) Not drive or stop on this painted island
c) Only overtake in this area

180. Arrow B in sketch 5 shows you that, you
a) Must proceed straight on or turn left
b) May proceed straight on
c) May only turn left

181. In sketch 8, under what conditions are you allowed to drive to left of yellow line RM4.1?
a) If the faster car behind you wants to pass
b) When you want to drive slower than 100 km/h
c) If your tire is flat and you need to change it

182. What does road marking GM1 in sketch 9 tell you?
a) That these lines are found only on freeways
b) That these are lane lines for all road users
c) That you may not cross when you see these lines

183. Sign ... warns that
a) There are roadworks ahead
b) There is a pedestrian crossing ahead
c) There are hitch-hikers ahead

184. The chevron ... with the arrow heads pointing inwards indicate that
a) There are sharp curves ahead
b) The lane converge at the point
c) The road does not go beyond the chevron, it is a dead end

185. Diagrammatic sign ... indicates that
a) The left lane ends
b) The right lane ends
c) There is a bridge ahead

186. Sign ... warns you that
a) The traffic sign ahead is out of order
b) There is a traffic signal ahead
c) There are emergency flashlights ahead

187. Which of the following reservation signs indicate that a specific area is reserved for construction vehicles?
a)
b) 
c) 

188. Which of the following signs indicate that there are strong crosswinds ahead?
a)
b) 
c) 

189. Arrow E in sketch 5 shows you that
a) You must turn right from that lane
b) You must proceed straight
c) That you may turn right

190. How close from a fire hydrant are you allowed to park?
a) Adjacent to it*
b) 1 m
c) 1.5 m

191. When may you flash head lamps at the vehicle in front of you on a freeway to show that you want to overtake
a) Any place on a freeway
b) When you are in the left lane, and you want to drive to the left of the edge line marking of the road
c) When you are in the lane furthest to the right on the freeway

192. You may park on
a) Two way road that is narrower than 5.5 m in an urban area
b) On a traffic island
c) 10 m away from an intersection

193. You are a game ranger, you are allowed to have adjustable spot lamps fitted to your vehicle
a) Yes
b) No
c) Yes, only under certain conditions

194. Sign ... prohibits certain classes of vehicles or road users beyond the sign, which of the following would this sign prohibit
a) Pedestrians and bicycles
b) Bicycles only
c) Pedestrians only

195. Sign ... forbids
a) Tractors to use this road
b) Any animals on this road
c) Animal drawn vehicles